.TH ifplugd 8 User Manuals
.SH NAME
ifplugd \- A link detection daemon for ethernet devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBifplugd [\fIoptions\fB]
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
ifplugd is a daemon which will automatically configure your ethernet device when a cable is plugged in and automatically unconfigure it if the cable is pulled. This is useful on laptops with on-board network adapters, since it will only configure the interface when a cable is really connected.

It uses your distribution's native ifup/ifdown programs, but can be configured to do anything you wish when the state of the interface changes. It may ignore short unplugged whiles (\fB-d\f1 option) or plugged whiles (\fB-u\f1 option).

ifplugd may be used in "compatibility mode" by specifying -F on the command line. Than ifplugd will treat network drivers which do not support link beat querying as always online.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a | --no-auto\f1
Do not enable interface automatically (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-n | --no-daemon\f1
Do not daemonize (for debugging) (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-s | --no-syslog\f1
Do not use syslog, use stdout instead (for debugging) (default: off). 
.TP
\fB-b | --no-beep\f1
Do not beep (off) 
.TP
\fB-f | --ignore-fail\f1
Ignore detection failure, retry instead. Failure is treated as "no link". (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-F | --ignore-fail-positive\f1
Ignore detection failure, retry instead. Failure is treated as "link detected". (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-i | --iface=\f1 \fIIFACE\f1
Specify ethernet interface (default: eth0) 
.TP
\fB-r | --run=\f1 \fIEXEC\f1
Specify program to execute when link status changes (default: \fI/etc/ifplugd/ifplugd.action\f1) 
.TP
\fB-I | --ignore-retval\f1
Don't exit on nonzero return value of program executed on link change. (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-t | --poll-time=\f1 \fISECS\f1
Specify poll time in seconds (default: 1) 
.TP
\fB-u | --delay-up=\f1 \fISECS\f1
Specify delay for configuring interface (default: 0) 
.TP
\fB-d | --delay-down=\f1 \fISECS\f1
Specify delay for deconfiguring interface (default: 5) 
.TP
\fB-m | --api-mode=\f1 \fIMODE\f1
Force a specific link beat detection ioctl() API. Possible values are auto, iff, wlan, ethtool, mii, and priv for automatic detection, interface flag (IFF_RUNNING), wireless extension, SIOCETHTOOL, SIOCGMIIREG resp. SIOCPRIV. Only the first character of the argument is relevant, case insensitive. (default: auto) 
.TP
\fB-p | --no-startup\f1
Don't call the script to bring up network on deamon start (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-q | --no-shutdown\f1
Don't call the script for network shutdown on deamon quit (default: off) 
.TP
\fB-w | --wait-on-fork\f1
When daemonizing, wait until the background process finished with the initial link beat detection. When this is enabled, the parent process will return the link status on exit. 1 means link beat detected, 2 stands for link beat not detected, everything else is an error. 
.TP
\fB-W | --wait-on-kill\f1
When killing a running daemon (with -k) wait until the daemon died. 
.TP
\fB-x | --extra-arg=\f1 \fIARG\f1
Specify an extra argument to be passed to the action script. 
.TP
\fB-M | --monitor\f1
Don't fail when the network interface is not available, instead use NETLINK to monitor device avaibility. The is useful for PCMCIA devices and similar. 
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help 
.TP
\fB-k | --kill\f1
Kill a running daemon (Specify -i to select the daemon instance to kill) 
.TP
\fB-c | --check-running\f1
Check if a daemon is running for a given network interface. Sets the return value to 0 if a daemon is already running or to 255 if not. 
.TP
\fB-v | --version\f1
Show version 
.TP
\fB-S | --supend\f1
Suspend a running daemon. The daemon will no longer check the link status until it is resumed (-R) again. (Specify -i to select the daemon instance to suspend.) 
.TP
\fB-R | --resume\f1
Resume a suspended daemon. (Specify -i to select the daemon instance to resume.) 
.TP
\fB-z | --info\f1
Request that a running daemon shall write its status information to syslog. (Specify -i to select the daemon instance to send the request to.) 
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/ifplugd/ifplugd.conf\f1: this file is sourced by the init script \fI/etc/init.d/ifplugd\f1 and contains the interface to be monitored and the options to be used.

\fI/etc/ifplugd/ifplugd.action\f1: this is the script which will be called by the daemon whenever the state of the interface changes. It takes two areguments: the first is the interface name (eg. eth0), the second either "up" or "down". 

\fI/var/run/ifplugd.<iface>.pid\f1: the pid file for ifplugd.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The action script will be called with two environment variables set:

\fIIFPLUGD_PREVIOUS\f1 The previous link status. Either "up", "down", "error" or "disabled". The former values should be obvious, the latter is set on daemon startup.

\fIIFPLUGD_CURRENT\f1 The current link status. See above for possible values.
.SH SIGNALS
\fISIGINT, SIGTERM\f1 ifplugd will quit, possibly running the shutdown script. This is issued by passing -k to ifplugd.

\fISIGQUIT\f1 ifplugd will quit, the shutdown script is never run.

\fISIGHUP\f1 ifplugd will write its status information to syslog. This is issued by -z.

\fISIGUSR1\f1 ifplugd will go to suspend mode. (-S)

\fISIGUSR2\f1 ifplugd will resume from suspend mode. (-R)
.SH AUTHOR
ifplugd was written by Lennart Poettering <mzvscyhtq (at) 0pointer (dot) de>. ifplugd is available at \fBhttp://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/ifplugd/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBifplugd.conf(5)\f1, \fBifup(8)\f1, \fBinterfaces(5)\f1, \fBifconfig(8)\f1, \fBifplugstatus(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This man page was written using \fBxmltoman(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
